README.md, before:

manageiq-automate
=========

The `manageiq-automate` role allows for users of ManageIQ Automate to modify and add to the Automate Workspace via an Ansible Playbook.
The role includes a module `manageiq_automate` which does all the heavy lifting needed to modify or change the Automate Workspace.

Requirements
------------

ManageIQ has to be Gaprindashvili (G Release) or higher.

The example playbook makes use of the `manageiq_automate` module which is also included as part of this role.

If you have a requirement to include this Role in Ansible Tower or Embedded Ansible, simply add an empty `roles`
directory at the root of your playbook and include a `requirements.yml` file with the following contents inside
that directory:

```
---
- src: syncrou.manageiq-automate
```

Role Variables
--------------

Auto Commit:
    `auto_commit` defaults to `False` in `defaults/main.yml`.
    If set to `True` it will auto commit back to ManageIQ each
    call to a `set_` method in the `manageiq_automate` module.

Validate Certs:
    `manageiq_validate_certs` defaults to `True`.
    If set to `False` in the `manageiq_connection` dictionary
    then the lookup will allow self signed certificates
    to be used when using SSL REST API connection urls.

ManageIQ:
    `manageiq_connection` is a dictionary with a set of connection defaults in `defaults/main.yml`.
    Remember to use Ansible Vault for passwords.
    `automate_workspace` is the href slug and guid required to talk to the Automate Workspace.

```
    manageiq_connection:
        url: 'http://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false
```

Workspace:
    `workspace` instantiated via `tasks/main.yml`.
    The current version of the workspace as it is modified via methods
    in the `manageiq_automate` module.

Dependencies
------------

None

Example Playbook
----------------

A verbose example with manual strings passed to each method of the
`manageiq_automate` module

```
- name: Modify the Automate Workspace
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local

  gather_facts: False
  vars:
  - auto_commit: True
  - manageiq_connection:
        url: 'https://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false

  roles:
  - syncrou.manageiq-automate

  tasks:
    - name: "Check an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        attribute_exists:
          object: "/ManageIQ/System/Request/call_instance"
          attribute: "::miq::parent"

    - name: "Get an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_attribute: object: "/ManageIQ/System/Request/call_instance"
          attribute: "::miq::parent"

    - name: "Check a state_var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        state_var_exists:
          attribute: "task_id"

    - name: "Get a state_var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_state_var:
          attribute: "task_id"

    - name: "Set a State Var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_state_var:
          attribute: "job_id"
          value: "xyz"
      register: workspace

    - name: "Check a Method Parameter"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        method_parameter_exists:
          parameter: "task_id"

    - name: "Get a Method Parameter"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameter:
          parameter: "invoice"

    - name: "Get the full list of Objects"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_object_names: yes

    - name: "Get the list of Method Parameters"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameters: yes
      register: method_params

    - name: "Get the list of State Vars"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_state_var_names: yes

    - name: "Get the full list of Object Attribute Names"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_object_attribute_names:
          object: "root"

    - name: "Set an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attribute:
          object: "root"
          attribute: "my_name"
          value:  "jim"
      register: workspace

    - name: "Set attributes"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attributes:
          object: "root"
          attributes:
            family_name: "timmer"
            eldest_son: "reed"
            youngest_son: "olaf"
      register: workspace

    - name: Decrypt an attribute from an object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_decrypted_attribute:
          object: root
          attribute: fred
      register: decrypted_attribute

    - debug: msg=decrypted_attribute

    - name: Decrypt a method_parameter from an object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_decrypted_method_parameter:
          attribute: fred

    - name: Encrypt an object attribute
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_encrypted_attribute:
          object: root
          attribute: freddy
          value: 'smartvm'

    - name: Grab a vmdb object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_vmdb_object:
          object: root
          attribute: miq_group

```

An example making use of variable substitution to modify some object
attributes with passed in `method_parameters` and change the retry.

```
- name: Siphon Method Parameters into an object
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  vars:
  - auto_commit: True
  - object: root
  - interval: 600
  - manageiq_connection:
        url: 'http://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false

  gather_facts: False
  roles:
  - syncrou.manageiq-automate

  tasks:
    - name: "Get the list of Method Parameters"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameters: yes
      register: method_params

    - name: "Set attributes"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attributes:
          object: "{{ object }}"
          attributes: "{{ method_params.value }}"

    - name: Set Retry
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_retry:
          interval: "{{ interval }}"
```

License
-------

Apache

Commit message:

Default auto_commit to True, remove default manageiq_connection

README.md, after:

manageiq-automate
=========

The `manageiq-automate` role allows for users of ManageIQ Automate to modify and add to the Automate Workspace via an Ansible Playbook.
The role includes a module `manageiq_automate` which does all the heavy lifting needed to modify or change the Automate Workspace.

Requirements
------------

ManageIQ has to be Gaprindashvili (G Release) or higher.

The example playbook makes use of the `manageiq_automate` module which is also included as part of this role.

If you have a requirement to include this Role in Ansible Tower or Embedded Ansible, simply add an empty `roles`
directory at the root of your playbook and include a `requirements.yml` file with the following contents inside
that directory:

```
---
- src: syncrou.manageiq-automate
```

Role Variables
--------------

Auto Commit:
    `auto_commit` defaults to `True` in `defaults/main.yml`.
    If set to `False` it will not auto commit back to ManageIQ each
    call to a `set_` method in the `manageiq_automate` module.

Validate Certs:
    `manageiq_validate_certs` defaults to `True`.
    If set to `False` in the `manageiq_connection` dictionary
    then the lookup will allow self signed certificates
    to be used when using SSL REST API connection urls.

ManageIQ:
    `manageiq_connection` is a dictionary with a set of connection defaults in `defaults/main.yml`.
    Use of this connection information is ONLY needed if the role is used outside of a ManageIQ
    appliance. A ManageIQ appliance passes in `manageiq_connection` via `extra_vars` so connection
    information is included automatically.

    Remember to use Ansible Vault for passwords.
    `automate_workspace` is the href slug and guid required to talk to the Automate Workspace.

```
    manageiq_connection:
        url: 'http://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false
```

Workspace:
    `workspace` instantiated via `tasks/main.yml`.
    The current version of the workspace as it is modified via methods
    in the `manageiq_automate` module.

Dependencies
------------

None

Example Playbook
----------------

A verbose example with manual strings passed to each method of the
`manageiq_automate` module

```
- name: Modify the Automate Workspace
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local

  gather_facts: False
  vars:
  - auto_commit: True
  # Only needed if this playbook is NOT run on a ManageIQ Appliance
  - manageiq_connection:
        url: 'https://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false

  roles:
  - syncrou.manageiq-automate

  tasks:
    - name: "Check an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        attribute_exists:
          object: "/ManageIQ/System/Request/call_instance"
          attribute: "::miq::parent"

    - name: "Get an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_attribute: object: "/ManageIQ/System/Request/call_instance"
          attribute: "::miq::parent"

    - name: "Check a state_var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        state_var_exists:
          attribute: "task_id"

    - name: "Get a state_var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_state_var:
          attribute: "task_id"

    - name: "Set a State Var"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_state_var:
          attribute: "job_id"
          value: "xyz"
      register: workspace

    - name: "Check a Method Parameter"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        method_parameter_exists:
          parameter: "task_id"

    - name: "Get a Method Parameter"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameter:
          parameter: "invoice"

    - name: "Get the full list of Objects"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_object_names: yes

    - name: "Get the list of Method Parameters"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameters: yes
      register: method_params

    - name: "Get the list of State Vars"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_state_var_names: yes

    - name: "Get the full list of Object Attribute Names"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_object_attribute_names:
          object: "root"

    - name: "Set an attribute"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attribute:
          object: "root"
          attribute: "my_name"
          value:  "jim"
      register: workspace

    - name: "Set attributes"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attributes:
          object: "root"
          attributes:
            family_name: "timmer"
            eldest_son: "reed"
            youngest_son: "olaf"
      register: workspace

    - name: Decrypt an attribute from an object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_decrypted_attribute:
          object: root
          attribute: fred
      register: decrypted_attribute

    - debug: msg=decrypted_attribute

    - name: Decrypt a method_parameter from an object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_decrypted_method_parameter:
          attribute: fred

    - name: Encrypt an object attribute
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_encrypted_attribute:
          object: root
          attribute: freddy
          value: 'smartvm'

    - name: Grab a vmdb object
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_vmdb_object:
          object: root
          attribute: miq_group

```

An example making use of variable substitution to modify some object
attributes with passed in `method_parameters` and change the retry.

```
- name: Siphon Method Parameters into an object
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  vars:
  - auto_commit: True
  - object: root
  - interval: 600
  - manageiq_connection:
        url: 'http://localhost:3000'
        username: 'admin'
        password: 'password'
        automate_workspace: 'automate_workspaces/1234'
        manageiq_validate_certs: false

  gather_facts: False
  roles:
  - syncrou.manageiq-automate

  tasks:
    - name: "Get the list of Method Parameters"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        get_method_parameters: yes
      register: method_params

    - name: "Set attributes"
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_attributes:
          object: "{{ object }}"
          attributes: "{{ method_params.value }}"

    - name: Set Retry
      manageiq_automate:
        workspace: "{{ workspace }}"
        set_retry:
          interval: "{{ interval }}"
```

License
-------

Apache
